how do you make it stick your biggest
enemy is you
hey everybody today's episode is brought
to you by impact theory university's own
business decision making workshop if
you're a business owner looking to scale
your company i can help i've created a
four week intensive workshop that's
going to give you the decision-making
strategies that you need to scale your
company it's the exact things that i use
to take quest to a billion dollar exit
and it's exactly what i'm using today on
impact theory that's allowed us to grow
by 400 in just the last two years if
this sounds like something that would be
beneficial to you and your business i
want you to go right now to
decision.impacttheory.com to apply once
again that's decision.impacttheory.com
you can apply today all right i'll see
you on the inside
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory today we're going to be
talking all about morning routines mine
specifically i'm going to walk you
through all of your burning questions
about how i do things why i do them
what's the result that i get out of them
and all that good stuff i think the way
that you start your day is one of the
most important things for guaranteeing
that you're going to be successful so
get this right and you get a lot of
other things right as well get it wrong
and you're in real trouble all right
without further ado let us jump in here
we go is there a process one can follow
to experiment and find out what type of
morning routine works best for them
as always trial and error is going to be
a big part of this but the wonderful
news for you is that you live in the age
of the internet so many people have put
out material on morning routines that
this really becomes one of the more
common questions that i get asked about
my morning routine so go out
take in a bunch of different people who
are living a life that is close to what
you want to live see how they do their
morning routine and then experiment and
i've actually seen people do
videos about oh i spent 30 days doing x
persons morning routine and here are the
results that i got um so that is a
really good way of just trying a lot of
different things and seeing which ones
work for you there's a really powerful
quote by a guy named kevin kelly and he
said don't prematurely optimize and he
was talking specifically about when
you're trying to decide what you want to
do with your life said go explore try a
lot of things find the things that give
you more energy than they take
and i think that's good advice here as
well don't just settle on a morning
routine because i say it or because
somebody else says it think of each part
of those routines that you hear as being
like legos and you're going to try a
bunch of different legos and then you're
going to see which ones create the
morning routine that's perfect for you
and that is the key it needs to be
perfect for you so there isn't going to
be any one size fits all they're going
to be different things that work for
different people so make sure that you
get out there you try a bunch of things
and then see what works for you so if
you just go to
youtube and type in morning routine you
will get more than enough
ideas to get you started
all right next
is it proper to have things set in a row
or do you have an allowance of jumping
around the same list and using no order
okay i don't know what you mean by set
in a row but i will tell you that my
to-do list is always in order of
importance and i think that there is an
optimal order to do things in so
important things 100 using the lead
domino strategy so what's the biggest
bang for my buck what could i spend the
next 15 minutes on that would have the
biggest impact
in leading me towards my goals okay
that's how i always think about my
official to-do list now when i think
about a morning routine and what order
i'm going to do things in then it has to
do with what's going on in my life at
that point what's the most important
thing to me in that moment and then
ordering things accordingly so there
have been times in my life where the
first thing i do is meditate
there have been times in my life where
the first thing i do is go to the gym
and so those are really the big two
things that i um oscillate between but
there are also times where i will
immediately go to work so any one of
those three things may be the first
thing that i'm doing in my morning
routine depending on what's going on in
my life so how do i decide between those
so when i'm really focused on getting my
physique in order i'm focused on
the gym as being the
the thing that i want to make sure that
no matter what else happens during the
day i get that done then i do that first
and that really is what slot number one
is for in any morning routine is what is
the most important thing that you know
no matter what else falls by the wayside
during this day if it gets crazy things
will crop up that i know that i'm going
to get that thing and so right now i'm
going to the gym first there was a long
stretch of time there where i wasn't as
focused on the gym and so it was like
well i'll work out later let me do a
little bit of work first and then i'll
go to the gym and i found what was
happening was instead of working out
five days a week or six days a week i
was working three days a week or
sometimes two days a week because so
much would pop up during the day that i
wasn't getting to it now that made sense
and i didn't change for a long time
because there was so many key
initiatives at impact theory that i was
trying to get to that that was truly
more important to me but then i hit a
threshold event where i was like nah now
i really want to get back in and really
really focus on the gym and
ironically it was because my lower back
started to hurt from under utilization
just a quick shout out to anybody
suffering from lower back pain can
basically tell you what it is poor diet
high inflammation and not deadlifting
enough now that doesn't mean high weight
deadlifts in fact i used to do that now
i just do low rate low weight high rep
but i find that my back hurts when i
don't work it out so again everything's
individual try it out for yourself but
that's important so that's how i judge
what to do first
my typical modus operandi would be that
lifting is the first thing i do
then i would meditate and the meditation
i use what i call thinkitation to get
into then the work so working out
meditating work is typically my path
again
mileage may vary try your own but if
you're not sure what to do you can try
that one
it's pretty damn effective for waking up
the brain
then practicing lowering your
heart rate your breathing rate by going
straight into the meditation and then
when your brain has all that clarity
that comes from working out
then you can leverage that as you
meditate to get the ideas you're going
to need to actually be effective at work
that's why i do it
all right
i wake up at 3 a.m in the morning and
work hard and also i'm feeling
physically healthy to do the work but
after 8 am i feel sleepy and not able to
give my 100 after then please suggest
something i can do to overcome this okay
so
i want to make sure
that you're getting all the sleep that
you actually need so
if you're waking up at 3am but you're
going to bed at 8pm then it's fine
that's seven hours of sleep and i would
say the average person probably does
fine between seven and eight hours but
if you need eight you're only getting
seven that's already a problem and if
you're going to bed at nine or ten and
getting up at three then odds are you
just aren't getting enough sleep
whenever you're feeling tired one of two
things is true you are not getting
enough sleep or high quality enough
sleep or your diet is off those two
things are going to be the things that
contribute most to whether you feel
fatigue or not there's a third one which
i'll throw in which is exercise which
does a great job of addressing your
mitochondria which are the actual energy
cells
energy organelles i guess within your
cells and it is critically important to
keep those guys in shape as well just to
make sure that they can generate the
cellular energy
but when you say you wake up at 3 a.m
without giving me any indication i'm
checking it again but yeah there's no
indication what time you go to bed so my
gut instinct is that you're waking up
too early now if that's just naturally
what time you wake up trust me i get it
i spent a very long time just getting
between five and six hours a night and
if i got six everything was great if i
got five one night in a row i was fine
but if i got five
multiple nights in a row then i started
to get really tired to the point where i
was once getting my hair cut and i did
one of those head bobs thankfully it was
timed well and i didn't end up getting a
huge chunk of my hair taken out
but that was when i realized if i can't
sit still for more than five minutes
without falling asleep
i don't think i'm getting enough sleep
now it's outside the scope of this video
for me to get into what i did to improve
my sleep but there are a lot of things
you can do to improve your sleep
and now i'm actually sleeping more than
i've ever slept in my life because i've
really got that dialed in and i
have to admit it's been awesome to just
never feel not never feel tired because
of course towards the end of the night i
start to get tired but during sort of
peak productivity hours i don't get that
anymore so get all the sleep you need i
don't sleep with an alarm okay i've run
a billion dollar company
i didn't set an alarm then
running a company now grew by 400 over
the last two years i don't use an alarm
now so
i work 93 hours a week without using an
alarm so i don't want to hear excuses
that people can't set an alarm you just
need to go to bed earlier now if you
have kids
go to bed when your kids go to bed even
if it's 7 pm do whatever it takes to get
the sleep that you need you need to be a
fiend for your sleep it impacts
everything else hugely important
i hope you guys are enjoying this
episode which is brought to you by
impact theory university's business
decision making workshop with nine
full-length classes and weekly live case
studies with me the business decision
making workshop is a hands-on approach
to honing your abilities to scale your
business i'm going to be in there with
you working through your hardest
problems so that you'll be able to
master how to overcome any impediment by
getting the most foundational way to
think through novel problems and that my
friends is exactly what you need to do
if you want to scale your company and
have the kind of crazy success you've
always dreamed i promise it is possible
this is teachable this is something that
you can learn it is a process that you
can deploy against your business and be
able to move confidently forward just go
right now to decision.impacttheory.com
to apply do not delay my friends spots
are limited again go to
decision.impacttheory.com and apply
today i'll see you guys on the inside
[Music]
what should go first meditation or a
workout hey i'm glad you asked we
addressed that earlier that's ultimately
going to come down to what's going on in
your life what is the highest priority
for you figure out what is the thing you
just absolutely cannot miss for that day
and do that thing now
all things being equal i will say
meditation before workout is less
effective than workout then meditation
so this comes down to the parasite
parasympathetic nervous system and the
sympathetic nervous system so
sympathetic is fight or flight you're in
the gym you're struggling you're out of
breath you're pushing hard you're
putting yourself into that stressful
fight-or-flight mode boom that wakes you
up okay you need that cortisol to get
you springing out of bed so for me one
of the reasons that i like to work out
first is i am slow
to wake up
really slow so for me to not spend an
hour sort of dragging ass around the
house if i go straight to the gym and i
start working out let me tell you one
set
i'm breathing heavy my blood is pumping
and boom all of a sudden i'm wide awake
there are a few things that will wake
you up faster than exercise in fact back
when i used to get tired in the middle
of the day what i would do as i was
getting tired i would go do sit-ups
push-ups jumping jacks
anything to get the blood flowing so
it's a great way to wake up then because
we want to go from the sympathetic to
the parasympathetic
and seeing how quickly we can do it and
getting really good at that by the way
if you suffer from anxiety or stress
this is a great way to practice how
rapidly can i go from the sympathetic to
the parasympathetic nervous system by
i'm there in the gym i'm out of breath
i'm now going to sit
i'm going to relax
i'm going to focus on slowing my
breathing down slowing my heart rate
down
which you actually can do
and by practicing that over and over and
over then you get better at rapidly
transitioning from
heavy breathing
pulse racing you know all the signs of
anxiety and
bringing them back to normal bringing
them back to baseline and the faster
that you can do that it's actually if
i'm not mistaken
the more in shape you are the faster you
will go from
high exertion out of breath rapid heart
rate to normal heart rate and that's one
of the things that they can test as a
test of being in shape and being healthy
is how quickly you can normalize your
heart rate
so anyway good thing to practice so
that's why when all things are equal
that's the order that i do them in
how do you reset
into a new routine any considerations
principles how to escape late nights and
succeed any mantras okay so whenever
you're trying to get a new routine what
you're really trying to do is change
your behavior if you're trying to change
your behavior you must understand that
behavior follows your beliefs so now you
need to get your beliefs in line now one
of the ways one of the beliefs you have
to get in line is that it's worth
getting out of bed that you want to do
this new thing that you want to stop
doing thing a and start doing thing b so
getting a mantra that you're repeating
around this exciting new thing that you
want to do it to make sure that you're
building excitement building desire
around that thing so attaching to the
why right i believe this thing is
important i'm excited about this thing i
want to do this thing once you get that
in the right place
you have a sufficient why
you have a sufficient level of
excitement
now all of a sudden the behavior of
getting up and doing that thing takes
care of itself so one of the most
important things you can do in your life
is to realize that it's critically
important to be excited about the things
you're trying to wrap these routines
around i see so many people
fighting this ridiculously uphill battle
to do a really hard thing
that they don't care about
i have a really hard time doing things
that i don't care about
so i'm always focusing first on getting
myself to the point where i care
now that may mean that you have to
change your life
if you hate your job hate the things
that you're doing with your time step
one is to start doing things that
actually give you more energy than they
take that are exciting to you that
you're amped about that seem worth
pursuing that you look
out into your future three to five years
you know where you want to be and you're
taking meaningful steps to get there
having a dream that is exciting and
honorable and you know that if i do this
thing today
and tomorrow and the day after and i can
make it a habit
and this becomes my routine
now i'm really making meaningful strides
towards my goal all of a sudden when you
don't feel like doing it you just remind
yourself
what you're chasing
you remind yourself what that goal is
and most importantly
you remind yourself why
you're pursuing that goal
it's a great nietzsche quote
a person
with a strong enough why
can survive almost any how
when you know why you're doing something
because it is so thrilling to you
the thought of having that thing is so
rad
the process of getting it you've
invested in and you're even enjoying
that process
that's when
it's easy to get that new routine
because you have to let the old routine
atrophy
but the only way to atrophy it is to
replace it with something else just not
doing anything
isn't necessarily going to atrophy those
sort of old habits those old desires
you've got to give something new that
you can lean into that you can be
excited about that you can pour yourself
into that you can fantasize about i'm
going to have that future that's going
to be mine and i'm doing xyz thing and
it's actually moving me towards my goals
when you have that when you have that
sense of progress and you know yo if i
keep doing this i'm pouring myself into
this look i am getting better and if you
take the rate at which i'm improving and
stretch it out over three or five years
or if you're willing 10 years it is
crazy it is absolutely utterly life
changing when you're pouring yourself
into getting better at something it is
life changing what you can do in 3 5 10
years
so now when you're thinking about it
you're talking to yourself about it
you're talking to other people about it
all you have to do is change your
routine and you get that thing
that's very easy and then when you get
that feed loop of actually progressing
it becomes really easy to cement it
but you need excitement
on the last part of that how to escape
late nights and succeed so
i have rules in my life
because i'm so excited about my goal
and i know that my goals will only
become real if my behaviors
back them up so i'm doing the things i
need to do in order to achieve my goal
so then i build rules in my life to
ensure that i do the things that excite
me that push me towards the goal that i
want to achieve that's exciting so i've
done the work there
and then so for instance in my life
monday through friday i go to bed it's
actually technically when it comes to
sleeping sunday through thursday night
i go to bed at 9 00 pm like it's a
religion
i stay up a little bit later on friday a
little bit later on saturday but it's
not too crazy
and i do that because i so
know the value and benefit of sleep i so
love feeling well rested and i so
understand the realities of circadian
rhythms and sleep timing and all of that
stuff that because i'm so obsessed with
the goals that i'm chasing and i see the
reality of how these things impact it
it's very easy for me to put in a rule
says i go to bed by nine simple as and
then stick to it because it gives me an
outcome that i want
this goes back to don't chase things you
don't want
chase things that you want invest in
that and all this stuff gets a lot
easier hate your job find a new one
pursuing dreams your parents think you
should be pursuing
find your own dreams have the guts to
stand up to your parents and say no
that's not the life you want to live
trying to impress your neighbors or your
friends or whatever stop
they don't give a and you shouldn't
either
the whole punch line of life is joy
now once you have that and those are the
things you're actually pursuing it gets
real easy to go to bed on time and then
make sure that you're carving yourself
out time to do the things you love so if
you're like yeah but if i go to bed at
night i won't have time to
read play video games hang out with my
spouse whatever
do those things put them on your
calendar make sure that you have time
for them
don't try to sneak in things like that
at night because you think that's what
you're supposed to do or you're supposed
to be you know a good hustler or busting
your ass or whatever look nobody's more
hardcore than me i work 93 hours a week
every week and have four years
i still make time for just outright fun
even at 93 hours a week there's a lot of
extra hours
so
do things that you love
what time do you sleep and what time do
you wake up would you start with reading
or showering how long do you take to do
your first work related task all right
this is really interesting okay
we've covered what time i go to bed go
to bed at nine like it's a religion now
what time do i wake up i don't set an
alarm so i wake up when i wake up i wake
up whatever time my body says hey i've
gotten enough sleep
which by the way if that's less than six
hours i will force myself to lay in bed
and try to fall back asleep which i've
come up with some ridiculously useful
things that help me fall back asleep
that have been
absolutely transformational to my life
and i will share those in a second but
what would i rather do read or shower
what would i do first reading or
showering so
quite literally
the second i get out of bed
okay i will walk you through the actual
step-by-step things i do i get out of
bed nice and quietly because 99 of the
time i wake up before my wife
i put on my socks put on my pants and i
leave the same shirt that i've been
sleeping on in the morning and leave
that on and i immediately put in
headphones and i turn on a book or a
youtube video literally right there i'm
standing at the edge of the bed still
being quiet so i don't wake up my wife
and i've got something queued up a book
or a youtube video boom i'm right into
learning mode then i go i'm brushing my
teeth while i'm learning feed the dogs
while i'm learning and then boom it's at
least right now it's straight into the
gym and i keep listening to whatever
that thing is that i'm learning so for
me i subscribe to abl always be learning
that is critically important to me i
think everybody should do it so you
should always have things that are
coming into your mind
when do i take my first work related
task my first work related task
is as soon as i finish the gym and then
my meditation which is really meant to
serve
the business anyway because i do brief
meditation followed by thinkitation the
thinkitation is strictly related to the
business so then i start working so i
typically wake up around 4 30 so go to
bed at nine wake up at 4 30 is about
seven and a half hours sleep then
uh i work out usually work out 45
minutes to an hour so now you're at
roughly 5 30
and then i start working out immediately
at that point so i'm you know maybe 5 40
5 45 by the time i finish doing the sort
of non-work related part of the
meditation uh and then i'm off to work
and i'll work until i go to bed at nine
now going back to what are the sort of
magic things that i do to stay asleep
so i do two things and
the first one is that i have realized
that if i keep headphones next to my bed
i keep two pairs just in case i'm really
having a bad night's sleep i'll keep a
pair of headphones next to my bed and i
have a book queued up that is not a book
with like
yelling and screaming try that doesn't
work ends up waking you back up but a
nice sort of easy read and i put it on a
slow speed for me this is an audio book
obviously i put it on a slow speed
so i'll put it on 1.3
and then i put the volume of the book
right to the level where if i put a tiny
bit of pressure on my ear i can hear it
clearly but if i were to
take that pressure off you can still
hear that there's sound but you can't
you can no longer hear what they're
saying
that is so perfect i will fall back
asleep in like three minutes now what i
used to do is i would put them in and i
would turn them up to a volume where i
could hear it normally and then if the
narrator got loud for a second it would
wake me up or i tried using the timer
and as the timer would run down then i
would wake up because i could hear it
going down so i found that what happens
is because i have to keep a little bit
of pressure on my ear that as soon as i
sleep that pressure lets off and it just
naturally shuts off the exactly perfect
moment and so i will just finally wake
up
and usually the book just keeps playing
but it's in my ear and it's so faint
that i don't even notice it works like a
charm now this the reason i wanted to
put this at the end is because there's
one thing that i do that i am
i'm on the advisory board for this
company so full disclosure if the
company does well that's financially
beneficial to me so i will say that
because of that i'm actually way more
scrutinous of these guys than i think i
might otherwise be but it's a company
called modius
i'm not even sure if they sell in the
u.s yet but they have a device that is
in fda approvals for a sleep aid
and it stimulates the vestibular system
long story about why that works and once
a day for 30 minutes a day it sends a
slight little electrical zap
into uh the nerve behind my ear that
stimulates the
um that sort that system in the brain
and for whatever weird reason it makes
you sleep better and i used to tell
people that it falls into the placebo
zone which is like where i think it's
helping but i'm not entirely sure and so
recently i was like man i've really been
sleeping well
maybe i don't need this anymore or maybe
it was just a placebo so let me just
stop you know maybe the headphone trick
maybe that's good and so i stopped doing
it for about a week and then all of a
sudden now i'm waking up four or five
times a night again and i'm like what
the is it really possible that this
thing has that much impact so i've now
gotten back on it religiously i'll
report back if it goes back to me
sleeping again to where i'm only waking
up once a night and i'm able to fall and
that's the other thing i'm not falling
back asleep as fast as i was before
so the headphone trick still works but
it'll take you know say 15 minutes or 20
minutes to fall back asleep
and man if that ends up working i'm
going to be pretty bullish on this thing
but again full disclosure i am involved
with the company but
it is very interesting and i do things
around blue
light blocking three hours before bed
so all of that stuff i do everything i
can to help myself make sure that i get
a good night's sleep
and it's a perfect place to end because
i consider the night sleep to actually
be the beginning of your morning routine
because if you mess up your sleep
everything else downstream falls apart
from there so make sure you're getting
good sleep all right experiment a lot
guys try a lot of different things get
that morning routine down to a science
to optimize your cognition your
performance your enjoy you don't want to
go through life tired going through life
tired all the time is a unique form of
hell in my opinion so avoid that at all
costs will help you think clearer move
faster everything is better
and then the only thing we didn't cover
on here is food so i postponed my
morning meal so i normally wake up like
i said about 4 30. normally eat my first
meal between 8 30 and 9 30 sometimes a
little bit later
and then i eat my final meal of the day
at 1 30. so i've got that you know
whatever roughly 18 to 19 hour window
for the week even including weekends my
average is about 17 and a half hours for
the whole week every night that i go
without food
so i work out i meditate i do a couple
of hours of work before i
eat anything
and i don't even have black coffee until
i've been awake usually for about two
hours and even that i dilute
dramatically with water
so
that's my routine
that's how i do it all right
i hope that serves you guys well because
when you get your morning right you get
your day right all right everybody until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
thank you for watching this episode
which again was brought to you by impact
theory's very own business decision
making workshop if you guys are ready to
take your business to the next level by
investing in yourself and learning the
first principles of business then i want
you to take action right now and go to
decision.impacttheory.com
to apply i promise you i am giving you
every piece of information that you will
need to overcome any obstacle that your
company is facing to stare down problems
that will arrive a year five years after
you take the course this is the
strategies of business decision making
that every successful entrepreneur has
to learn to deploy against their company
if they want to grow all right guys i
promise it will deliver
10x the value of what you pay for it and
if it doesn't i'll give you your money
back no questions asked you know me i
live in the public eye there's nowhere
for me to hide this is me trying to give
as much value as humanly possible i
really think this class would be
transformative and i hope you will sign
up and i will see you in the next live
class all right guys take care and be
legendary